Differnces between the POP and OOP
1.In POP the concentrate will be on procesdue and functions and in OOP the concentrate will on class and objects.
2.if we want modify the code in POP we want to change the entire program and in OOP no need to change just create another class and objext
3.In OOPS,the object to object communication done through methods and in
4.In OOPS,data and methodsthat work on data will be combined into a single unit called class.


Object-oriented programming 

    •Object-oriented programming lets you extend a program without having to touch previously tested, working code
    Object-oriented programming provides great flexibility, modularity and reusability through encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism

​principles of  oops java
Inheritance         
Polymorphism
Encapsulation
Abstraction

​1.Inheritance
    Deriving new classes from existing classes such that the new classes acquire all the features of existing classes is called inheritance


2.Polymorphism
Ability to take more than one form
it is used in implementing the inheritance.

3.Encapsulation.
the method and the method  work on data will be combines and that single unit is called as encapsulation and it will helps in secure the data and data hiding.

4.Abstraction
Hiding all the uncessary implementation details and only exposing only the required functionalities


Object:
object is a real world entitity and physically exists r logically 
it has properties and atributes and it can do actions and identity.

1.Software to develop online book store:
Objects are book name ,type of book,racks,book colour ,name of author,
Actions are read the book ,take the book and we can search books and buy the books

objects-book 
Atribute-Book name ,author of the book,type of book
Actions-Add book ,change book,remove the book from site,identify the book exchange the bbok read and indrerstand the concept of the  book.


Object:Website for open page
Atribute -name of website ,login id,esername and password to open site 
Actions-change the useranme and password of the site and create new username .

Object-Order
Atribute-order Id ,name of person who order,type of book ordered,order address
Actions-change order,return order,siping  order,user take the  book return order,cancel order and exachange order.

Object-Cost
Atribute-cost Id ,price of the book,type of cost
Actions-Increase decrease the cost,take the trancation by paying the money.

which book we want 
author of book
search by using name of author
user 
who will take the book for reading and using
search                
searching the book for easy to find
cart                  
we can add and remove the books to cart
order                 
we can order the book and name and address who take the book
trancation id                     
cost and return the books transcation and payment id

2.To develop SOftware Employee management system.

object-employee
atributes- employee name,ID,age ,gender,mobile ,email,usernme ,password and address 
actions-add employee,delete,edit details ,save the details and  search the employee details

object- Leaves
attributes-leave ID,leave purpose ,how many days of leave,leave description,leave type ,leave empolyee id, 
actions -adding leaves,take leaves ,permission for leave ,update leaves ,save leaves,search for how many leaves emplyee have .

object-department
atributes -name of department,no of persons in department,Department ID,purpose of department.
actions -increase and decrease no of persons in department,change the department

object-salary
attributes-amounof salary,total salary ,salary type,salary name ,name of employee for given salary. 
actions-add salary,remove salary for leaves,edit salary,save salary amount,bonus for more work.

object-Employee experience
Atributes-Experence ID,Experience employee Id,year of rmployee experience,experience description.
Actions-Increase and decrease experience ,Save the employee experience,depend upon experience give salary

Object - Employee Login 
Atributes-Login Id ,Password,user name,login role ID
Actions-Add no of logins,delete the logins,create username and password for login,update the details in the login

Object -Employee Attendence
Atributes-Attendence ID ,name of the Attendence Employee,Attendence Id,No of present and absent ,attendence description.
Actions-Add attendece for salary,rdit attendence,save the attendence and search for enployeey attendence



developing the social media App

object-user
Atributes-user name,login,Password,address ,profile.
Action-create user name,reset password ,change profile and address.

object-post
Atributes-who created  like and dislike the post
Actions-the post created ,modified ,changed ,liked and diskike the post


object-comment
Atributes-who wrote comment  like and dislike the comment
Actions-we can write comment ,modified ,changed ,liked and diskike the comment

object:-facebook
attributes:-name,login page,posts,read,write.
actions:-login,logout,chage password,add new user.

object:-likes and dislikes
attribute:-likes and dislikes,count of likes and  dislike.
actions:-add new like,dislike,remove like and dilike

objects are used to call the methods, The objects are created with new operator with the respective class name.

Methods
two types
1.pre defined 
2.user defined

variables
1.Instance variables
(i)It will be declared outside of  a method or constructor or block but within class for every objects values will be change and 
(ii)It will store default values when we dont give values
(iii)it will be created at the time of object creation and will destroyyed when object is destriyed .
it will be stored in Heap area
accessing Objectname.variable name

2.Static variables
(i)Does not change values object to object for saving memory
(ii)It will declared outside method and use static keyword and only one copy will be created and that will be shared all the objects of the class.
(iii)It will be created at the time of the loading of the class and they will be destroyed when the class is unloaded. 
it will be stored Method area or class area
accessing Objectname.variable name or classname .variable name

3.Local variables
1.outside the method can be used local variables.
2.when ur using have to initialize. 
3.it will be stored in stack area.

Types of methods
1.setter or mutator
setting the atributes from objects

2.Accessor or getter methods
getting the atributes from the objects

Method Overloading
changing the no of parameters and data types with out changing the reyturn type

constructor
If there are many creation of objects we need more values so by using this we will access the values in the object only for instance variables and it will not have return type.
constructor name must have same class name  only.


class Student{
  String name; //instance variable
  int id; //instance variable
 
  public Student(String n, int i){
    name=n;
    id=i;
  }
  
  public void talk(){
    System.out.println("name is"+name);
    System.out.println("id is"+id);
  }
  
}
 
public class Ex100{
  public static void main(String[] args){
    Student s1= new Student("pavan",1);
   
    s1.talk();
 
    Student s2= new Student("kumar",2);
   
    s2.talk();
  }
}






 





 